"Y'are very snug in here," piped old Mr. Woodifield, and he peered out of the great, green-leather
armchair by his friend the boss's desk as a baby peers out of its pram. His talk was over; it was time
for him to be off. But he did not want to go. Since he had retired, since his...stroke, the wife and the
girls kept him boxed up in the house every day of the week except Tuesday. On Tuesday he was
dressed and brushed and allowed to cut back to the City for the day. Though what he did there the
wife and girls couldn't imagine. Made a nuisance of himself to his friends, they supposed....Well,
perhaps so. All the same, we cling to our last pleasures as the tree clings to its last leaves. So there sat
old Woodifield, smoking a cigar and staring almost greedily at the boss, who rolled in his office
chair, stout, rosy, five years older than he, and still going strong, still at the helm. It did one good to
see him.
Wistfully, admiringly, the old voice added, "It's snug in here, upon my word!"
"Yes, it's comfortable enough," agreed the boss, and he flipped the Financial Times with a paperknife. As a matter of fact he was proud of his room; he liked to have it admired, especially by old
Woodifield. It gave him a feeling of deep, solid satisfaction to be planted there in the midst of it in
full view of that frail old figure in the muffler.
"I've had it done up lately," he explained, as he had explained for the past - how many? - weeks.
"New carpet," and he pointed to the bright red carpet with a pattern of large white rings. "New
furniture," and he nodded towards the massive bookcase and the table with legs like twisted treacle.
"Electric heating!" He waved almost exultantly towards the five transparent, pearly sausages glowing
so softly in the tilted copper pan.
But he did not draw old Woodifield's attention to the photograph over the table of a grave-looking
boy in uniform standing in one of those spectral photographers' parks with photographers' stormclouds behind him. It was not new. It had been there for over six years.
"There was something I wanted to tell you," said old Woodifield, and his eyes grew dim
remembering. "Now what was it? I had it in my mind when I started out this morning." His hands
began to tremble, and patches of red showed above his beard.
Poor old chap, he's on his last pins, thought the boss. And, feeling kindly, he winked at the old man,
and said jokingly, "I tell you what. I've got a little drop of something here that'll do you good before
you go out into the cold again. It's beautiful stuff. It wouldn't hurt a child." He took a key off his
watch-chain, unlocked a cupboard below his desk, and drew forth a dark, squat bottle. "That's the
medicine," said he. "And the man from whom I got it told me on the strict Q.T. it came from the
cellars at Windor Castle."
Old Woodifield's mouth fell open at the sight. He couldn't have looked more surprised if the boss
had produced a rabbit.
"It's whisky, ain't it?" he piped feebly.
The boss turned the bottle and lovingly showed him the label. Whisky it was.
"D'you know," said he, peering up at the boss wonderingly, "they won't let me touch it at home."
And he looked as though he was going to cry.
"Ah, that's where we know a bit more than the ladies," cried the boss, swooping across for two
tumblers that stood on the table with the water-bottle, and pouring a generous finger into each.
"Drink it down. It'll do you good. And don't put any water with it. It's sacrilege to tamper with stuff
like this. Ah!" He tossed off his, pulled out his handkerchief, hastily wiped his moustaches, and
cocked an eye at old Woodifield, who was rolling his in his chaps.
The old man swallowed, was silent a moment, and then said faintly, "It's nutty!"
But it warmed him; it crept into his chill old brain - he remembered.
"That was it," he said, heaving himself out of his chair. "I thought you'd like to know. The girls were
in Belgium last week having a look at poor Reggie's grave, and they happened to come across your
boy's. They're quite near each other, it seems."
Old Woodifield paused, but the boss made no reply. Only a quiver in his eyelids showed that he
heard.

https://www.15min.lt/esports-namai/naujiena/naujienos/prancuzu-anglicizmu-draudimas-ne-reikalingas-sprendimas-1200-1687712
"The girls were delighted with the way the place is kept," piped the old voice. "Beautifully looked
after. Couldn't be better if they were at home. You've not been across, have yer?"
"No, no!" For various reasons the boss had not been across.
"There's miles of it," quavered old Woodifield, "and it's all as neat as a garden. Flowers growing on
all the graves. Nice broad paths." It was plain from his voice how much he liked a nice broad path.
The pause came again. Then the old man brightened wonderfully.
"D'you know what the hotel made the girls pay for a pot of jam?" he piped. "Ten francs! Robbery, I
call it. It was a little pot, so Gertrude  says, no bigger than a half-crown. And she hadn't taken more
https://www.vu.lt/
than a spoonful when they charged her ten francs. Gertrude brought the pot away with her to teach
'em a lesson. Quite right, too; it's trading on our feelings. They think because we're over there having
a look round we're ready to pay anything. That's what it is." And he turned towards the door.
"Quite right, quite right!" cried the boss, though what was quite right he hadn't the least idea. He
came round by his desk, followed the shuffling footsteps to the door, and saw the old fellow out.
Woodifield was gone.  www.vu.lt
For a long moment the boss stayed, staring at nothing, while the grey-haired office messenger,
watching him, dodged in and out of his cubby-hole like a dog that expects to be taken for a run.
Then: "I'll see nobody for half an hour, Macey," said the boss. "Understand? Nobody at all."
"Very good, sir."
